.\" SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2016-2025 Noble Factor
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
.TH New-DockerLocation 1 "November 2025" "docker-webhook" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
New-DockerLocation \- generate certificate request and Docker Compose YAML for a location
.SH SYNOPSIS
New-DockerLocation [OPTIONS]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Generates a certificate request (certificate-request.conf) and a Docker Compose YAML file (docker-LOCATION.yaml) for the specified LOCATION. Places the certificate request in secrets/certificates/LOCATION/ and the Compose YAML file in the workspace root.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.B --env-file <file>
Load environment variables from a file. Variables in the file override command-line arguments.
.TP
.B --role <role>
Set the role name (e.g., webhook, homebridge). Required.
.TP
.B --location <location>
Set the location name (e.g., us-wa). Required.
.TP
.B --country-code <code>
Country code (default: US). Required.
.TP
.B --state-or-province <state>
State or province (default: Washington). Required.
.TP
.B --city <city>
City (default: Redmond). Required.
.TP
.B --organization-name <name>
Organization name (default: The Noble Family). Required.
.TP
.B --organizational-unit <unit>
Organizational unit (default: 5028 243rd Ave NE). Required.
.TP
.B --domain-name <domain>
Domain name (default: home.thenoble.family). Required.
.TP
.B --email-address <email>
Email address (default: network-admin@thenoble.family). Required.
.TP
.B -h, --help
Show usage information and exit.
.SH USAGE
.RS
.nf
\fBLOCATION=us-wa ./bin/New-DockerLocation --location us-wa\fR
.fi
.RE
.SH AUTHOR
David Noble
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2016-2025 Noble Factor.
.br
Licensed under the MIT License.