.\" SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2016-2025 Noble Factor
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
.TH Test-WebhookExecutor 1 "November 2025" "docker-webhook" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
Test-WebhookExecutor \- black-box API test for webhook-executor responses
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B Test-WebhookExecutor
\fI--destination\fR \fIDESTINATION\fR \fI--webhook-url\fR \fIURL\fR \fI--jwt\fR \fITOKEN\fR \fI--command\fR \fICMD\fR [\fI--command\fR \fICMD\fR ...] [\fI--help\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Test-WebhookExecutor is a black-box test script that validates the API responses
from webhook-executor hooks in a running webhook deployment. It performs HTTP GET requests
to the specified webhook URL with command execution parameters and JWT authentication,
verifying that the JSON responses conform to the expected schema.

The script is designed for testing webhook-executor functionality without inspecting
container internals, focusing solely on API behavior. It measures test execution time
and reports pass/fail counts for each tested command.

For each command specified:
.IP "-" 2
Sends a GET request to \fIwebhook-url\fR?hostname=\fItarget-host\fR&command=\fIcmd\fR
.IP "-" 2
Validates the JSON response contains required fields: exit_code, reason, error, stdout, stderr
.IP "-" 2
Reports success or failure with detailed output

The test requires a running webhook instance with webhook-executor configured hooks.
See the API Reference section in README.md for complete response schema documentation.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -h,--help
Display usage information and exit.
.TP
.B --command CMD
Required. One or more commands to execute and test. Each command is sent as a separate
request. Commands should be simple shell commands that produce predictable output.
.TP
.B --destination DESTINATION
Required. The hostname parameter sent in webhook requests, typically the target machine
for command execution.
.TP
.B --webhook-url URL
Required. The full URL of the webhook endpoint to test, including protocol, host, port,
and path (e.g., https://localhost:9000/hooks/remote-mac).
.SH EXIT STATUS
The script exits with code 0 if all tests pass, or 1 if any test fails. Individual command
failures are reported but do not immediately terminate the script; all specified commands
are tested.
.SH EXAMPLES
Test a single command on a local webhook:
.IP
Test-WebhookExecutor --webhook-url https://localhost:9000/hooks/remote-mac --destination example.com --jwt eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9... --command uptime

Test multiple commands:
.IP
Test-WebhookExecutor --webhook-url https://webhook.example.com/hooks/execute --destination server.local --jwt eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9... --command "echo hello" --command "date" --command "whoami"

Test with a remote webhook endpoint:
.IP
Test-WebhookExecutor --webhook-url https://api.company.com/webhooks/exec --destination production-server --jwt eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9... --command "systemctl status nginx"
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR README.md (API Reference),
.BR docker-webhook (1),
.BR webhook-executor (1)
.SH AUTHOR
David Noble
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2016-2025 Noble Factor.
.br
Licensed under the MIT License.</content>
<parameter name="filePath">/Users/david-noble/Workspace/NobleFactor/docker-webhook/share/man/man1/Test-DockerWebhookDeployment.1