.\" SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2016-2025 Noble Factor
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
.TH Test-DockerWebhookSanity 1 "November 2025" "docker-webhook" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
Test-DockerWebhookSanity \- runtime sanity test for Noble Factor webhook container images
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B Test-DockerWebhookSanity
\fI[--wait N]\fR \fI[--keep]\fR \fI[image:tag]\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
Test-DockerWebhookSanity is a small smoke-test script that verifies a
webhook container image starts and shows basic runtime indicators.

The script will:
.IP "-" 2
Start the specified container image (detached),
.IP "-" 2
Wait a short period for services to initialize, then capture and print the last 200 lines of container logs,
.IP "-" 2
Inspect runtime files such as /init, /command and /package/admin inside the container, and
.IP "-" 2
Remove the container unless --keep is passed.

The test returns exit code 0 on success heuristics: if log output contains a "serving hooks" line or a version marker. If no indicators are found the test exits non-zero.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --wait N
Number of seconds to wait after starting the container before collecting logs and performing inspections. Default: 2 seconds.
.TP
.B --keep
Do not remove the created container after the test finishes. Useful for manual debugging.
.TP
.B image:tag
Optional positional argument. The container image to test; defaults to
.I noblefactor/webhook:1.0.0-preview.1
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success: webhook appears to have started (serving hooks or version marker found).
.TP
.B 1
Sanity checks failed — no clear success markers in logs.
.TP
.B 2
Required dependency (docker) not found on PATH.
.TP
.B 3
Failed to start container (image not found or could not be pulled).
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Run the default image (quick smoke test):
.RS
.nf
Test-DockerWebhookSanity
.fi
.RE
.TP
Run a specific image and keep the container for inspection:
.RS
.nf
Test-DockerWebhookSanity --keep myregistry/my-webhook:latest
.fi
.RE
.TP
Increase the wait time for slow systems:
.RS
.nf
Test-DockerWebhookSanity --wait 10 noblefactor/webhook:1.0.0-preview.1
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
.B docker(1)
.SH AUTHOR
David Noble
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2016-2025 Noble Factor.
.br
Licensed under the MIT License.
