.\" SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2016-2025 Noble Factor
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
.TH Test-ShellScript 1 "November 2025" "Test-ShellScript" "test"
.SH NAME
Test-ShellScript \- find shell scripts and run shellcheck on them
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B Test-ShellScript
[\fB\-\-help\fR]
[\fB\-\-paths\fR \fIPATHS\fR]
[\fB\-\-recurse\fR]
[\fB\-\-shellcheck\fR \fISHELLCHECK\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Test-ShellScript
finds shell scripts in the specified paths by examining their shebang lines
and runs \fBshellcheck\fR on them to detect potential issues. By default, it
scans the current directory.
.PP
The script requires \fBshellcheck\fR to be installed for linting.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display usage information and exit.
.TP
.BR \-\-paths " \fIPATHS\fR"
Comma-separated list of paths to search for shell scripts. Defaults to current
directory if not specified.
.TP
.BR \-\-recurse
Recursively search subdirectories for shell scripts.
.TP
.BR \-\-shellcheck " \fISHELLCHECK\fR"
Path to the \fBshellcheck\fR binary. Uses system default if not specified.
.SH EXAMPLES
Check shell scripts in the current directory:
.nf
Test-ShellScript
.fi
.TP
Check scripts in specific paths recursively:
.nf
Test-ShellScript --paths src,bin --recurse
.fi
.SH EXIT STATUS
The script exits with status 0 if no issues are found, or non-zero if
shellcheck reports problems or if required tools are missing.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR shellcheck (1),
.BR find (1)
.SH AUTHOR
David Noble
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2016-2025 Noble Factor.
.br
Licensed under the MIT License.